					    FINAL PROJECT - PHOTO EDITOR

						Vashist Kutti Suresh
						vsuresh@clemson.edu


Basic Idea : 
	To create a photo editor that performs operations like applying effects,frames,adjusting HSV, RGB channel mixer etc.
	The photo editor contains two general modes, 
		*The Preset mode which contains operations which is preset and user just needs to apply it. 
		*The Adjustment mode which contains operations where adjustments on images can be made.

Operating the photo editor : 
	The photo editor uses User interaction from both the displayed image window and the terminal.
	The operation calls are performed by clicking the image and pressing the respective operation call keys.
	The user will need to use the terminal while giving choices, for selecting from the options in a operation.
		Example working flow : 
		->User Compiles and runs program
		->User clicks displayed image
		->presses 'e'
		->Effects menu is displayed in terminal asking for choices
		->user selects the required effect in choice by pressing numbers for the respective choice
		->the effect is added
	
Keyboard key-press keys and its functions:

	PRESET MODE 'p' : Select-
			'e' for effects
			'f' for setting up frames
	
	ADJUSTMENT MODE 'a': Select-
	 		'o' for changing Orientation
	 		'h' for adjusting Hue,Saturation and value of the image
	 		'g' for adjusting the gamma value of the image	
	 		'c' for adjusting the RGB channels of the image
			'UP_key' for increasing the value[RGB/HSV/gamma]
			'DOWN_key' for decreasing the value[RGB/HSV/gamma]

	 'u' for undo the previous action on the image
	 'x' for comparing the image with the original one
	 'w' for writing the image



Running the program/Command line usage:
			./project img.png [op.png]
			
	[op.png] is the write file


Major Operations : 

	----Preset Mode----

	Effects : It has 6 major effects to choose from. Some effects may contain sub-categories too. 
		1)Overlay effect - It is somewhat like the intensification of the image by adding an overlay of the same image, similar to photoshop.
		2)Warm and cool effect - It has two sub categories : 1.Warm and 2.Cool where the user chooses one in the command line.
					Warm effect creates an warmed version of the image
					Cool effect creates a cooled version of the image
		3)Black and white - It is a common effect which changes the image to black and white.
		4)Deserted effect - This effect creates a deserted effect on the image. It has two options to choose from
		5)Mirror effect - This is a crzy effect which mirrors half the image . It has two types Horizontal and Vertical . Use both to get crazy results.
		6)Pray for paris - This effect is dedicated to the victims of Paris attacks. It is a similar one as which we have seen in Facebook display pictures.

	Frames : The user gets to select from a choice of 5 frames and apply over the image. The choice of the frame is given by the user.

	----Adjustment Mode----

	Orientation : The user gets 3 choices of orienation changing. Vertical flip,Horizontal flip and Rotation . The selected option is performed.

	Adjust HSV : This adjustment is to adjust the Hue,Saturation and Value of the image. Select the option as to what to change in the terminal and Press 'UP_key' or 'DOWN_key' while on the image to increase or decrease.

	Gamma correction : This adjustment is to correct the gamma value of the image. After selecting this image ,Press 'UP_key' or 'DOWN_key' while on the image to increase or decrease the gamma value.

	RGB Channel mixer : This one is similar to the one in photoshop which mixes and adjusts the Red,Green and blue values of the image.After selecting which channel to change in command line,Press 'UP_key' or 'DOWN_key' while on the image to increase or decrease.



Bugs and discrepancies : 
	*A major bug in the program is the fixed image size. I tried fixing it by using the concept of ratios where 
	the images like frames,flares etc are scaled to the original image size and then worked within.
	The concept what I thought was to get scaling factors by Original_image/frame_image (or viceversa if needed) for the x and y scaling factors.
	But I faced issues while gettin the scaling factors and couldnt solve it .Hence worked with fixed image size .

	*Typing incorrect values like alphabets in the command line may cause problem.

 
